# Grand Prix Database: 
A web application inspired by IMDB that allows users to see daily F1 news and browse through a database of championship standings and race results.

**Project Summary:** A personal project inspired by IMDB, this project aimed to create a dynamic Formula 1 statistics database with an engaging, modern UI to deliver up-to-date F1 news, race results, and championship standings. News data is fetched from Microsoft’s Bing API on Azure, and the F1 results data comes from a Formula 1 API. To enhance performance and reduce costs and API calls, I’ve implemented a caching strategy for API responses using a MongoDB database.

**Project Requirements:** This project’s objective was to create an engaging frontend that displays data from a Formula 1 API and the Bing News API. The interface enables users to select a season, browse through the race calendar, and view qualifying and race results from each event. Users can also examine the driver and constructor standings for each season. To reduce the number of API calls, cut costs, and enhance performance, a MongoDB database was used to cache the JSON data returned by the APIs for a specified period using TTL Indexes.

**Justification for Tech Stack:** For the frontend and backend of this application, I selected NextJS. As a full-stack framework, NextJS facilitated the creation of NodeJS serverless functions for the API caching endpoints, which can then be easily called from the React frontend using the NextJS router. This approach also helps keep hosting costs down due to the serverless endpoints on the backend.

For the API cache database, I initially considered Redis due to its performance benefits. However, as the data I wanted to cache were nested JSON Objects, not supported by Redis’ ‘key-value’ database structure, I decided on MongoDB with Mongoose as the ORM. MongoDB was chosen as this project didn’t require saving any relational data, and it allowed setting up a TTL index for the API response data to automatically delete it after a set time, thereby ensuring the cached data remains up-to-date.

**Project Outcome:** This project has deepened my understanding of NextJS’s full-stack and routing features and the advantages it provides over a vanilla React application. It has also strengthened my knowledge of caching, and how it can be used to reduce unnecessary HTTP requests, cut down application running costs, and improve application performance for users.
